RULES
of The Seventeenth International Fryderyk Chopin Piano Competition

I
1. The Seventeenth International Fryderyk Chopin Piano Competition (hereinafter called the Competition), organised by the Fryderyk Chopin Institute (hereinafter called the Institute), will be held in Warsaw from 2–23 October 2015. 
2. The Jury of the Competition will comprise outstanding Polish and foreign musicians. 

II 
The Competition is open to every pianist representing a professional level of performance, who was born between 1985 and 1999 and who will meet the requirements described below. 

III 
1. Candidates wishing to enter the Competition will have to submit the required application documents by the deadline given below (see § IV) and, if accepted, to participate in the Competition Preliminary Round to be held in Warsaw from 13–24 April 2015. 
2. Winners of the two top prizes of selected piano competitions[1] may be accepted to the Competition without having to participate in the Preliminary Round. They will be required to enclose an appropriate request with the application form. The decision to accept the winners will be made by the Competition Director[2]. 

IV 
1. The Competition application should include: 
a) application form available on the Competition’s website, to be printed, correctly completed and personally signed by the candidate for the Competition 
b) short biographical note (not more than half page, A4 paper size – about 1000 characters) 
c) photocopy of an official document indicating date of birth 
d) 3 current photographs, including at least one portrait photo, to be used in Competition publications (electronic version 300–1200 dpi, accepted formats: jpg, gif, bmp, jpeg) 
e) photocopies of musical studies certificates 
f) two letters of recommendation in support of the Competition application, provided by pedagogues or outstanding music personalities 
g) documents certifying the candidate’s major artistic activities in the past three years 
h) video recording of the repertoire of the Competition first stage (see § XIII of the Rules); the video image must show the pianist’s handwork and the right side of his/her whole figure, filmed with one camera without cuts during the performance of a piece 
i) record of payment of the application fee of 100 Euro net into the Institute’s account: 
	91 1240 6003 1978 0010 4997 9032 
	Bank Pekao S.A. 
	(ul. Grzybowska 53/57,00-950Warszawa) 
	SWIFT(BIC): PKOPPLPW 
The candidate’s name and purpose of payment should be indicated. 
The application form and all correspondence relating to the participation in the Competition should be in Polish, English or French, or translated into one of these languages. Incomplete application or failure to meet the abovementioned requirement may result in the rejection of the application. 
The Institute will not return the submitted documents and materials, which will become the Institute’s property. 

2. The application should be submitted to the Institute by mail, e-mail or using the electronic form, which is available on the Institute’s website. 
The application should be submitted to the following address: 
	Narodowy Instytut Fryderyka Chopina 
	ul. Tamka 43 
	00-355 Warszawa, Poland 
	e-mail: konkurs@nifc.pl 
Candidates should submit the original of the application form mentioned in item 1a) above. Electronic version of the application form will not be accepted. 
The applications should be submitted to the Institute no later than 1 December 2014 (if sent by traditional mail, the postmark deadline is Dec. 1, 2014). Upon receipt of the complete application the Institute will confirm its acceptance of the Competition application. 

3. The candidate’s submission of his/her Competition application will be tantamount to the candidate’s acceptance of these Rules. The notification of the acceptance of the candidate’s application will mean that an agreement has been concluded between the Institute and the candidate concerning all matters provided for in these Rules. 

V 
1. The candidate’s documents and recordings, specified in § IV item 1h, will be assessed by the Qualifying Committee, consisting of outstanding musicians, on the basis of the Qualifying Committee Rules. The Competition Director will appoint Members of the Qualifying Committee. 

2. In principle, the Committee will pass 160 candidates into the Preliminary Round. 

3. The list of candidates accepted to the Preliminary Round and to the Competition in the manner specified in § III item 2 will be made public by an announcement placed on the Institute’s website no later than 9 March 2015. 

VI 
1. Candidates will be notified of the date and time of their audition in the Preliminaries by an announcement placed on the Institute’s website no later than 18 March 2015. 

2. The Institute will make it possible for Preliminary Round participant to test-play the piano to be used in the Prelimi­naries, indicating the date and time of test-playing, if the participant registers with the Competition Office no later than two days before his/her performance. 

3. The Institute will make practice pianos available to all Preliminary Round participants. 

4. Candidates accepted to the Preliminary Round will pay for their own travel to and from Warsaw and for their own board and accommodation while in Warsaw. 

5. The Institute will not assist Preliminary Round partici­pants to obtain Polish visas. At the interested party’s re­quest the Competition Office will provide a note confirming his/her acceptance into the Preliminary Round. 

6. Preliminary Round participants should have health insurance coverage for the duration of their stay in Poland. 

VII 
The Preliminary Round repertoire includes solely works by Fryderyk Chopin: 
 - one of the following Etudes: 
   in A minor, Op. 10 No. 2 
   in G sharp minor, Op. 25 No. 6 
   in A minor, Op. 25 No. 11 
 - two Etudes, one from each group (a, b) indicated below: 
  a) in C major, Op. 10 No. 1 
   in C sharp minor, Op. 10 No. 4 
   in G flat major, Op. 10 No. 5 
   in F major, Op. 10 No. 8 
   in C minor, Op. 10 No. 12 
  b) in C major, Op. 10 No. 7 
   in A flat major, Op. 10 No. 10 
   in E flat major, Op. 10 No. 11 
   in A minor, Op. 25 No. 4 
   in E minor, Op. 25 No. 5 
   in B minor, Op. 25 No. 10 
 - one of the following pieces: 
   Nocturne in B major, Op. 9 No. 3 
   Nocturne in C sharp minor, Op. 27 No. 1 
   Nocturne in D flat major, Op. 27 No. 2 
   Nocturne in G major, Op. 37 No. 2 
   Nocturne in C minor, Op. 48 No. 1 
   Nocturne in F sharp minor, Op. 48 No. 2 
   Nocturne in E flat major, Op. 55 No. 2 
   Nocturne in B major, Op. 62 No. 1 
   Nocturne in E major, Op. 62 No. 2 
   Etude in E major, Op. 10 No. 3 
   Etude in E flat minor, Op. 10 No. 6 
   Etude in C sharp minor, Op. 25 No. 7 
 - one of the following pieces: 
   Ballade in G minor, Op. 23 
   Ballade in F major, Op. 38 
   Ballade in A flat major, Op. 47 
   Ballade in F minor, Op. 52 
   Barcarole in F sharp major, Op. 60 
   Fantasia in F minor, Op. 49 
   Scherzo in B minor, Op. 20 
   Scherzo in B flat minor, Op. 31 
   Scherzo in C sharp minor, Op. 39 
   Scherzo in E major, Op. 54 
- one Mazurka chosen from the following opuses: 
   17, 24, 30, 33, 41, 50, 56, 59 

The pieces may be performed in any order except the compulsory Etudes,
which must be played one after the other. 

VIII 
1. The Preliminary Round repertoire must be shown in the candidate’s Competition application. 
2. The Preliminary Round repertoire must be played from memory. 
3. While it is permitted to use the texts contained in all avail­able editions of Chopin’s works, contestants are recommended to use the urtext in The National Edition of the Works of Fryderyk Chopin edited by prof. Jan Ekier. 
4. The Competition Office should be notified in writing of all changes to the Preliminary Round repertoire no later than 16 March 2015. 
IX 
1. The participants’ performances will be assessed by the Preliminary Round Jury, consisting of outstanding Polish and foreign musicians, working on the basis of the Rules of the Preliminary Round Jury. 
2. All Preliminary Round auditions will be open to the public. 
3. In principle, 80 participants will be admitted to the main Competition. 
4. The list of candidates admitted to the main Competition will be made public by an announcement placed on the Institute’s website no later than 25 April 2015. 
X 
1. The Institute will make it possible for a Competition participant to test-play the pianos to be used during the Competition, indicating the date and time of test-playing, if the participant registers with the Competition Office no later than 28 September 2015. 
2. The order the participants’ Competition performances will be drawn in public on 30 September at 5 p.m. 
3. For organisation and programme related reasons the Com­petition Director will have the right to change the sequence of a day’s performances. In the event of a contestant’s illness, confirmed by the Competition’s medical service, the contestant may be permitted to perform outside the established sequence, at the end of the current stage. 
XI 
1. Competition participants will be reimbursed for their docu­mented costs of travel to and from Warsaw to participate in the Competition (upon production of an invoice/ticket showing the participant’s name). In the event of the costs clearly exceeding what in the Institute’s opinion are justi­fied expenses (e.g. indirect route, late booking, flying in a class above Economy, etc.), the Institute reserves the right to partially reimburse the participants for the costs, and the decision to this end will be made by the Competi­tion Director. 
2. The Institute will provide participants who will qualify for the main Competition with free-of-charge board and accom­modation for the following periods: 
– stage I participants: 28 September to 9 October 2015 
– stage II participants: 28 September to 14 October 2015 
– stage III participants: 28 September till the end of the Competition 
– finalists: 28 September till the end of the Competition 
with the proviso that the participants will accept board and accommodation at the location recommended by the Institute. 
3. The Institute will make practice pianos available to all contestants. 
4. Participants passed into the final will have one rehearsal with the orchestra. 
5. The Institute will not assist Competition participants to obtain Polish visas. At the interested party’s request the Competition Office will provide a note confirming his/her acceptance to the Competition and the abovementioned benefits. 
6. Competition participants should have health insurance coverage for the duration of their stay in Poland to partici­pate in the Competition. 
XII 
1. Competition performances will be open to the public and held in three stages and the final. 
2. In principle, 40 participants will be passed into the second stage, 20 into the third stage and no more than 10 into the final. 
XIII 
The Competition repertoire includes solely works by Fryderyk Chopin. 
Competitors may play pieces they presented on the video recording enclosed with the application 
and pieces they performed in the Preliminary Round.
However, the same piece cannot be played in the different stages of the Competition. 
Stage I 
 - two Etudes, one from each group (a, b) indicated below: 
  a) in C major, Op. 10 No. 1 
   in C sharp minor, Op. 10 No. 4 
   in G flat major, Op. 10 No. 5 
   in F major, Op. 10 No. 8 
   in C minor, Op. 10 No. 12 
   in A minor, Op. 25 No. 11 
  b) in A minor, Op. 10 No. 2 
   in C major 0p.10 No. 7 
   in A flat major, Op. 10 No. 10 
   in E flat major, Op. 10 No. 11 
   in A minor, Op. 25 No. 4 
   in E minor, Op. 25 No. 5 
   in G sharp minor, Op. 25 No. 6 
   in B minor, Op. 25 No. 10 
 - one of the following pieces: 
   Nocturne in B major, Op. 9 No. 3 
   Nocturne in C sharp minor, Op. 27 No. 1 
   Nocturne in D flat major, Op. 27 No. 2 
   Nocturne in G major, Op. 37 No. 2 
   Nocturne in C minor, Op. 48 No. 1 
   Nocturne in F sharp minor, Op. 48 No. 2 
   Nocturne in E flat major, Op. 55 No. 2 
   Nocturne in B major, Op. 62 No. 1 
   Nocturne in E major, Op. 62 No. 2 
   Etude in E major, Op. 10 No. 3 
   Etude in E flat minor, Op. 10 No. 6 
   Etude in C sharp minor, Op. 25 No. 7 
 - one of the following pieces: 
   Ballade in G minor, Op. 23 
   Ballade in F major, Op. 38 
   Ballade in A flat major, Op. 47 
   Ballade in F minor, Op. 52 
   Barcarole in F sharp major, Op. 60 
   Fantasia in F minor, Op. 49 
   Scherzo in B minor, Op. 20 
   Scherzo in B flat minor, Op. 31 
   Scherzo in C sharp minor, Op. 39 
   Scherzo in E major, Op. 54 
The pieces may be performed in any order except the Etudes from groups a) and b),
which have to be played one after the other. 
Stage II 
 - one of the following pieces: 
  Ballade in G minor, Op. 23 
  Ballade in F major, Op. 38 
  Ballade in A flat major, Op. 47 
  Ballade in F minor, Op. 52 
  Barcarole in F sharp major, Op. 60 
  Fantasia in F minor, Op. 49 
  Scherzo in B minor, Op. 20 
  Scherzo in B flat minor, Op. 31 
  Scherzo in C sharp minor, Op. 39 
  Scherzo in E major, Op. 54 
  Polonaise-Fantaisie in A flat major, Op. 61 
- one of the following Waltzes: 
  in E flat major, Op. 18 
  in A flat major, Op. 34 No. 1 
  in F major, Op. 34 No. 3 
  in A flat major, Op. 42 
  in A flat major, Op. 64 No. 3 
- one of the following Polonaises: 
  Andante Spianato and Polonaise in E flat major, Op. 22 
  Polonaise in F sharp minor, Op. 44 
  Polonaise in A flat major, Op. 53 
  or both Polonaises from Op. 26 
- any piece or pieces by Fryderyk Chopin 
  (if the hitherto performed part of the repertoire does not exhaust the minimum time limit indicated below). 
Performing time in the second stage: 30–40 minutes. 
Competitors who played one of the Scherzos in the first stage, 
in the second stage should choose another genre from the first group. 
The pieces may be performed in any order (except Op. 26). 
Should the contestant overrun the time limit, the Jury may stop his/her performance. 


Stage III 
 - Sonata in B flat minor, Op. 35 or Sonata in B minor, Op. 58 or all Preludes, Op. 28. 
Repetition of the exposition in the first movement of the B minor Sonata should be left out; 
repetition of the first movement of the B flat minor Sonata is optional. 
 - a full set of Mazurkas from the following opuses: 
   17, 24, 30, 33, 41, 50, 56, 59 
   Mazurkas must be played in the order they are numbered in the opus. 

   In the case of opuses 33 and 41 the following number applies: 
   op. 33: in G sharp minor No. 1, in C major No. 2, in D major No. 3, in B minor No. 4 
   op. 41: in E minor No. 1, in B major No. 2, in A flat major No. 3, in C sharp minor No. 4 
 - any piece or pieces by Fryderyk Chopin (if the hitherto per¬formed part of the repertoire
   does not exhaust the minimum time limit indicated below). 

Performing time in the third stage: 50–60 minutes. 
The pieces may be performed in any order (except the Mazurkas and the Preludes). 
Should the contestant overrun the time limit, the Jury may stop his/her performance. 


FINAL 
- One of the following Concertos: in E minor, Op. 11 or in F minor, Op. 21. 
XIV 
1. The Competition repertoire must be shown in the candi­date’s Competition application. 
2. The Competition repertoire must be played from memory. 
3. While it is permitted to use the texts contained in all avail­able editions of Chopin’s works, contestants are recom­mended to use the urtext in The National Edition of the Works of Fryderyk Chopin edited by prof. Jan Ekier. 
4. The Competition Office should be notified in writing of all changes to the Competition repertoire no later than 21 August 2015. 
XV 
1. The following main prizes will be awarded to six top finalists: 
  1st prize 30 000 € and a gold medal 
  2nd prize 25 000 € and a silver medal 
  3rd prize 20 000 € and a bronze medal 
  4th prize 15 000 € 
  5th prize 10 000 € 
  6th prize 7 000 € 

  Main prize-winners will earn the title ‘Laureate of the Seventeenth International Fryderyk Chopin Piano Competition’. 

2. The remaining finalists will receive equal distinctions of 4 000 € each. 
3. Independently of the prizes listed above, the following special prizes may be awarded: 
- for the best performance of a Polonaise 3 000 € 
- for the best performance of Mazurkas 5 000 € 
- for the best performance of a Concerto 3 000 € 
- for the best performance of a Sonata 10 000 € 
4. The sums shown above are subject to applicable tax reductions required by Law. 
5. Second and third stage participants who failed to qualify for the next stage will receive participation diplomas. 
XVI 
1. The decision to award the main prizes, distinctions and special prizes will be made by the Competition Jury. 
2. The Jury will have the right to change by a 2/3 majority the number and classification of main prizes with the proviso that the total amount of prize money, including the distinctions, will not be increased and that the individual main prizes and distinctions will not be lower than provided for in the Competition Rules. 
3. The Jury will have the right not to award individual main prizes or special prizes. 
4. All decisions made by the Jury will be final and not subject to appeal. 
5. Competition results will be made public after the final performances are finished and the Jury has finished its deliberations on 20 October 2015. 
XVII 
The official presentation of the winners of main prizes, special prizes and distinctions will be held on21 October 2015. 
XVIII 
1. All laureates will be required to appear without remunera­tion in three prize-winners’ concerts. 
2. The Chairman of the Competition Jury will establish the repertoire of the prize-winners’ concerts in consultation with the performers. The laureates will be required to perform the exact repertoire as established. 
3. An unexcused absence from any of the above concerts will be tantamount to giving up the prize money. 
XIX 
The Competition Director will accept extra-statutory prizes in accordance with the Rules of Awarding Extra-Statutory Prizes. Offers to donate extra prizes should be submitted to the Competition Office by 30 September 2015. The official awarding of extra-statutory prizes will be held on 22 October 2015. 
XX 
1. Each Preliminary Round and Competition participant will: 
a) permit the Institute to make audio and visual recordings of his/her artistic performances of works in the Prelimi­nary Round, the Competition and the winners’ concerts and transfer to the Institute all economic rights to these performances, 
b) permit the Institute to make audio and visual recordings of his/her image, statements and interviews given during the Preliminary Round, the Competition and the winners’ concerts or relating to the Preliminary Round, the Competition and the winners’ concerts; transfer to the Institute all property rights to these statements and interviews, and permit the Institute to disseminate his/her image recorded in connection with his/her participation in the Preliminary Round, the Competition and the winners’ concerts, 
c) transfer to the Institute an exclusive, temporally and territorially unlimited right to grant permissions to exercise related copyrights on the works specified under the letter b) above, in particular to dispose of and use adaptations of the works, including translations into foreign languages; the participant will also undertake not to take any action limiting this right in the future, 
d) authorise the Institute to execute his/her personal rights with respect to the works and artistic performances mentioned under the letters a) and b) above, and undertake not to exercise his/her personal rights in a manner that will restrict the Institute in the exercise of its rights obtained in accordance with the provisions of this Paragraph, 
e) permit the Institute to use his/her artistic performances, interviews, statements and image, in full or in part, to make adaptations, abridged versions, alterations and translations, and declare that such use of them will not be deemed to damage his/her name; the participant will also grant leave to mark with his/her first and last name his/her artistic performances, statements, interviews and images specified under the letters a) and b) above. 
2. The transfer and granting of the rights (including permis­sions), specified in this Paragraph item 1, is temporally and territorially unlimited, and covers all exploitation fields known at the time of making these Rules public, in particular: 
a) recording and duplicating (including storing in compu­ter or other device memory), reproducing with the use of any technology, including printing, reprography, mag­netic, mechanical, optical, electronic or other recording, analogue and digital technology, in any system or for­mat; on all media, including audio, video and audio-visu­al media, on paper and similar media, on light-sensitive, magnetic, optical disks, memory cubes, computers and other recording and memory media, uploading, down­loading, digitalisation, using in a multimediawork, 
b) trading the original and its copies created in the fields of technology specified under the letter a) above – offering for sale, licensing, leasing, renting, 
c) all other manners of dissemination, including: 
i. live, simultaneous, integral broadcasts and replays, including cable and wireless radio/TV (terrestrial and satellite; making available over the Internet (including the streaming technology), in other information, cable, telecommunication and multimedia relay networks, and in other transmission systems (including simul­casting, webcasting, IPTV), uncoded and coded, in open and closed circuit relay systems, in any technology (including analogue and digital, high definition (HD), three dimensional (3D)), and in any system and format, with or without a recording mode, including text, multimedia, Internet, telephone and telecommunication services, and the Video on Demand (VoD) service; 
ii. making available to the public in a way that offers every person access to the objects covered by these rights at a time and place of their choice, including by ground transmitters and via satellite, by cable, telecommuni­cation and multimedia networks, databases, servers or other devices and systems, including third parties, in open and closed circuit systems, in any technology, system and format, with or without a recording mode, including the services mentioned in point i., also as part of all telecommunication services using any system and device (among others, landline phones and/or mobile phones, tablets, desktop computers and/or laptops, notebooks, netbooks, etc., and relays in any available technology, e.g. GSM, UMTS, etc., via telecommunication data relay networks); 
iii. all kinds of public replaying, performing, exhibiting, displaying; 
d) making foreign language versions. 
3. The transfer and granting of the rights (including permis­sions), specified in this Paragraph, takes effect as soon as the artistic performances, statements and interviews are established and is free-of-charge. If it is possible under existing laws, the participant will relinquish his/her rights to royalties from Internet, TV and radio broadcasts of his/her artistic performances, statements or interviews mentioned in this Paragraph item 1. 
4. Within the scope of the rights obtained under these Rules, the Institute will be fully authorised to transfer these rights to others, to grant licenses and further authorisations. The participant will not be entitled to any additional remuneration arising out of this. 
XXI 
The Competition Director will make decisions on all mat­ters exceeding the powers of the Jury. His decisions will be final and not subject to appeal. 
XXII 
1. In case of doubt the Polish language version of the Rules will be used in interpreting and clarifying their provisions. 
2. Any matter not provided for in the Rules will be subject to Polish Law. 
3. Any legal dispute will be settled by the Polish court of law in whose jurisdiction the registered office of the Institute is located. 
[1] 
The Queen Elisabeth International Music Competition in Brussels (2013 edition, piano category) 
The International Paderewski Piano Competition in Bydgoszcz (2013 edition) 
The Van Cliburn International Piano Competition in Fort Worth (2013 edition) 
The Hamamatsu International Piano Competition (2012 edition) 
The Leeds International Piano Competition (2012 edition) 
The National Chopin Piano Competition of the USA in Miami (2015 edition) 
The International Tchaikovsky Piano Competition in Moscow (2011 edition, piano category) 
The Paloma O'Shea Santander International Piano Competition (2012 edition) 
The Arthur Rubinstein International Piano Master Competition in Tel Aviv (2014 edition) 
The Polish National Fryderyk Chopin Piano Competition in Warsaw (2015 edition) 
[2]Winners of the Miami and Warsaw competitions (cf. footnote 1) may apply electronically by March 2, 2015.
